docs/dao.md, before:

## What is a DAO?

A Decentralised Autonomous Organisation (DAO) places the community participants in control of the platform transparently and programmatically. The power of on-chain smart contracts means that a large number of automated actions within a contract can be set up and voted on, the results of which can be automatically actioned.

Many DAOs these days are mostly off-chain or only have the voting on-chain which is then handed over to a trusted admin/council to actually enact the proposed changes. The reason most projects opt to run the DAO in this way is simply because DAOs are complex and difficult to place on-chain due to the chain-limitations and gas costs. Spartan Protocol worked really hard to ensure they didn't cop out and go the easy route, the entire Spartan DAO is on-chain & automated, _including the functions being actioned following a successful proposal._ There is _no_ reliance on an admin or council of individuals to make the proposal happen once it's successfully approved by majority consensus.

## Who makes up the DAO?

"Who makes up the 'majority consensus' you spoke about above?" - If you read up on the [DaoVault staking info,](staking?id=daovault-staking) you will know that only the liquidity providers in the most active Spartan Protocol pools make up the voting weight within the DAO. This means that the people who have influence in these changes are the very people who are likely to be acting in the best interest of the protocol.

## What can the DAO do?

The Spartan DAO can do _ALOT._ Its definitely the most expansive on-chain DAO I have ever used, giving so much control & trust to the Spartan community to really be able to operate and maintain the protocol now and ongoing.

---

## Turn On / Off Emissions

> ℹ. `FLIP_EMISSIONS` Requires: 50% Consensus

Being able to turn the emissions off or on again offers several advantages within the ecosystem. Turning off base emissions would cause Spartan Protocol to have its incentives fade away. This means that there would be less incentive for liquidity providers, potentially leading to reduced total value locked (TVL).

If voted through, the total supply would pause, causing the emissions to cease which would be very good news for longer-term token holders. Although if this happens too early, the TVL will reduce and therefore one would expect the token price would reduce with it, but it is intended and expected for emissions to one day be turned off once the circular revenue is significant enough to feed into itself and continue growing the project on its own.

## Burn Synth Premium

> ℹ. `REALISE` Requires: 50% Consensus

Realising the premium of a pool involves working out how much the existing synths are worth and how much the LP tokens held on the Synth contract are worth. If there is a premium amount, it can be burned and therefore attributed to the existing liquidity providers earlier than it would have been if we waited until those Synths were instead melted.

## Add Pool to Curated

> ℹ. `ADD_CURATED_POOL` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

Adding a pool to the 'Curated' list enables extra features and incentives ontop of the pool as explained in the [liquidity section](/liquidity-pools?id=curated-pools) of the documenation. As this is an important decision involving value extraction functions, a majority (66.66%) consensus is required for it to pass.

## Remove Pool from Curated

> ℹ. `REMOVE_CURATED_POOL` Requires: 50% Consensus

Conversely, should a Curated pool fail to hold the desire of the community, a proposal can be created to remove the special Curated status and have the pool returned to a regular liquidity pool.

## Adjust SynthVault Claim %

> ℹ. `SYNTH_CLAIM ` Requires: 50% Consensus

Here we can regulate the claim percentage of the Reserve that the SynthVault can begin 'harvest' calculations off. If increased; the harvest rewards will be larger. If decreased they will be lower. This proposal has a hard-coded max input of 1500 basis points & a minimum of 0 basis points (which would effectively turn off harvest rewards)

## Adjust DaoVault Claim %

> ℹ. `DAO_CLAIM` Requires: 50% Consensus

Here we can regulate the claim percentage of the Reserve that the DaoVault can begin 'harvest' calculations off. If increased; the harvest rewards will be larger. If decreased they will be lower. This proposal has a hard-coded max input of 1500 basis points & a minimum of 0 basis points (which would effectively turn off harvest rewards)

## Change DAO Proposal Cooloff

> ℹ. `COOL_OFF` Requires: 50% Consensus

When a proposal is created, the community will come and vote on whether or not they agree with it. Once a majority has been attained and the proposal reaches enough weight to switch to finalizing status, there is a mandatory window where it needs to stay above 50% consensus otherwise it won't be finalize-able.

This cooling-off period allows the community/DAO time to educate everyone if it's a bad proposal and allows those who oppose it to add liquidity to the pools to get enough weight to vote against it. The community may decide that they want a bigger window for proposals to be voted through, or to make the time shorter if that's what they feel is best for Spartan Protocol.

## Send a SPARTA Grant to a Wallet

> ℹ. `GRANT` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

Being able to vote through a grant is what could be used to encourage the driving force behind any future developments. The vision behind the DAO is that Spartan Protocol continues to be a self-governing community project that does not require any maintenance or upkeep. This means that the project can run indefinitely without any interactions from admins or trusted council members.

Whilst the contributors have always remained active, the community may decide that they want a large upgrade, or to introduce a whole domain of new features which could range from extra deflationary measures or additions that could generate extra revenue streams for Spartan hodlers such as spinning off into gaming / NFTs.

The community can vote through a grant which would allow financial incentives and reward to those involved with any new developments that the community may call for.

This proposal-type has already been testing in the wild with V2 to provide a small grant for marketing purposes thru the last 2021 -> early 2022 months, funding a number of partnerships and opportunities that were preiously un-obtainable due to the 'no treasury' aspect of the project.

As this is an important decision involving value extraction functions, a majority (66.66%) consensus is required for it to pass.

---

## Upgrade DAO Contract

> ℹ. `DAO` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

Changing the DAO contract is a concept that may be of not much use at the moment. However, in order to future proof the Spartan Protocol, there may come a day where a modification or upgrade will need to take place within the DAO itself.

A contract change will allow the contributors to be able to implement changes as the community requests them. This will allow Spartan Protocol to remain fit for use no matter what changes may take place in the future of DeFi.

## Upgrade ROUTER Contract

> ℹ. `ROUTER` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

Another contract change proposal which has to be included to ensure that Spartan Protocol is as future proof as possible. The Router contract is likely to be upgraded many times throughout the years, whether it is to cut out unused features, make existing functions more efficent (save gas) or add new features.

## Upgrade UTILS Contract

> ℹ. `UTILS` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

When V2 launched, a new feeBurn deflationary feature was implemented on every transfer of the SPARTA token. This Utils contract was designed with the intention of making it possible to disable or change that feeBurn, which is exactly what happenned in late November 2021, sending us into the next phase of SPARTA token burns where ~37% of the total supply was burned permanently out of the supply to the 0x0dead address! It is unlikely this contract will need to be changed again in the future as it mostly houses 'helper' functions, but nice to know we always can!

## Upgrade RESERVE Contract

> ℹ. `RESERVE` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

The reserve contract is where the emissions are sent before being distributed to the pools or harvested. Just like the DAO contract address, this will most likely never need to be voted through to be changed, however is always best to be safe and make sure we are as future proof as possible.

---

## Bond-related Proposals (Deprecated)

With the token distribution phase of the project coming to a close, alot of Bond-related proposals are no longer relevant, but live on in the DAO's proposal-history page in the DApp. These Bond proposals inluded:

- New Bond Allocation: Release a 2M SPARTA allocation available for Bonding.
- List a Bond Asset: The Bond program was only enabled on limited assets as decided by the DAO
- Delist a Bond Asset: The DAO could also propose to remove an asset from being Bond-enabled

---

## Guides

- [Create New Proposal _Guide Coming Soon_](/dao?id=guides)
- [Manage Current Proposal _Guide Coming Soon_](/dao?id=guides)

Commit message:

Extended and added guides
Extended the docs, fine-tuned some areas and added some guides

docs/dao.md, after:

## What is a DAO?

A Decentralised Autonomous Organisation (DAO) places the community participants in control of the platform transparently and programmatically. The power of on-chain smart contracts means that a large number of automated actions within a contract can be set up and voted on, the results of which can be automatically actioned.

Many DAOs these days are mostly off-chain or only have the voting on-chain which is then handed over to a trusted admin/council to actually enact the proposed changes. The reason most projects opt to run the DAO in this way is simply because DAOs are complex and difficult to place on-chain due to the chain-limitations and gas costs. Spartan Protocol worked really hard to ensure they didn't cop out and go the easy route, the entire Spartan DAO is on-chain and automated, _including the functions being actioned following a successful proposal._ There is _no_ reliance on an admin or council of individuals to make the proposal happen once it's successfully approved by majority consensus.

## Who makes up the DAO?

"Who makes up the 'majority consensus' you spoke about above?" - If you read up on the [DaoVault staking info,](staking?id=daovault-staking) you will know that only the liquidity providers in the most active Spartan Protocol pools make up the voting weight within the DAO. This means that the people who have influence in these changes are the very people who are likely to be acting in the best interest of the protocol.

## What can the DAO do?

The Spartan DAO can do _ALOT._ Its definitely the most expansive on-chain DAO many users have ever used, giving so much control and trust to the Spartan community to really be able to operate and maintain the protocol now and ongoing. These actions the DAO can perform are triggered via DAO proposals.

## DAO Proposals

Anyone can create a DAO proposal at any time, as long as no other DAO proposal is currently active. The proposer simply has to visit the DAO and click a few buttons to select their proposal type and parameters. They will then have to confirm a transaction to initialise the proposal on-chain.

Some gas and a 'new proposal fee' will require payment by the proposer. This fee doesn't go to any middleman, its intention is not rent-seeking, it goes to the reserve which is where all non-owned SPARTA sits waiting to be released via incentives to good peers in the ecosystem. The main reason for this fee is to help resist spamming / greifing and also to ensure the Spartan is sure about this proposal before confirming it. All proposers should seek general consensus from the community on a proposal _prior_ to creating the proposal on-chain, otherwise they will likely have trouble reaching consensus on-chain within the required time period.

Some more info on the different proposal types in the next section:

---

## Turn On / Off Emissions

> ℹ. `FLIP_EMISSIONS` Requires: 50% Consensus

Being able to turn the emissions off or on again offers several advantages within the ecosystem. Turning off base emissions would cause Spartan Protocol to have its incentives fade away. This means that there would be less incentive for liquidity providers, potentially leading to reduced total value locked (TVL).

If voted through, the total supply would pause, causing the emissions to cease which would be very good news for longer-term token holders. Although if this happens too early, the TVL will reduce and therefore one would expect the token price would reduce with it, but it is intended and expected for emissions to one day be turned off once the circular revenue is significant enough to feed into itself and continue growing the project on its own.

## Burn Synth Premium

> ℹ. `REALISE` Requires: 50% Consensus

Realising the premium of a pool involves working out how much the existing synths are worth and how much the LP tokens held on the Synth contract are worth. If there is a premium amount, it can be burned and therefore attributed to the existing liquidity providers earlier than it would have been if we waited until those Synths were instead melted.

## Add Pool to Curated

> ℹ. `ADD_CURATED_POOL` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

Adding a pool to the 'Curated' list enables extra features and incentives ontop of the pool as explained in the [liquidity section](/liquidity-pools?id=curated-pools) of the documenation. As this is an important decision involving value extraction functions, a majority (66.66%) consensus is required for it to pass.

## Remove Pool from Curated

> ℹ. `REMOVE_CURATED_POOL` Requires: 50% Consensus

Conversely, should a Curated pool fail to hold the desire of the community, a proposal can be created to remove the special Curated status and have the pool returned to a regular liquidity pool.

## Adjust SynthVault Claim %

> ℹ. `SYNTH_CLAIM ` Requires: 50% Consensus

Here we can regulate the claim percentage of the Reserve that the SynthVault can begin 'harvest' calculations off. If increased; the harvest rewards will be larger. If decreased they will be lower. This proposal has a hard-coded max input of 1500 basis points and a minimum of 0 basis points (which would effectively turn off harvest rewards)

## Adjust DaoVault Claim %

> ℹ. `DAO_CLAIM` Requires: 50% Consensus

Here we can regulate the claim percentage of the Reserve that the DaoVault can begin 'harvest' calculations off. If increased; the harvest rewards will be larger. If decreased they will be lower. This proposal has a hard-coded max input of 1500 basis points and a minimum of 0 basis points (which would effectively turn off harvest rewards)

## Change DAO Proposal Cooloff

> ℹ. `COOL_OFF` Requires: 50% Consensus

When a proposal is created, the community will come and vote on whether or not they agree with it. Once a majority has been attained and the proposal reaches enough weight to switch to finalizing status, there is a mandatory window where it needs to stay above 50% consensus otherwise it won't be finalize-able.

This cooling-off period allows the community/DAO time to educate everyone if it's a bad proposal and allows those who oppose it to add liquidity to the pools to get enough weight to vote against it. The community may decide that they want a bigger window for proposals to be voted through, or to make the time shorter if that's what they feel is best for Spartan Protocol.

## Send a SPARTA Grant to a Wallet

> ℹ. `GRANT` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

Being able to vote through a grant is what could be used to encourage the driving force behind any future developments. The vision behind the DAO is that Spartan Protocol continues to be a self-governing community project that does not require any maintenance or upkeep. This means that the project can run indefinitely without any interactions from admins or trusted council members.

Whilst the contributors have always remained active, the community may decide that they want a large upgrade, or to introduce a whole domain of new features which could range from extra deflationary measures or additions that could generate extra revenue streams for Spartan hodlers such as spinning off into gaming / NFTs.

The community can vote through a grant which would allow financial incentives and reward to those involved with any new developments that the community may call for.

This proposal-type has already been testing in the wild with V2 to provide a small grant for marketing purposes thru the last 2021 -> early 2022 months, funding a number of partnerships and opportunities that were preiously un-obtainable due to the 'no treasury' aspect of the project.

As this is an important decision involving value extraction functions, a majority (66.66%) consensus is required for it to pass.

---

## Upgrade DAO Contract

> ℹ. `DAO` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

Changing the DAO contract is a concept that may be of not much use at the moment. However, in order to future proof the Spartan Protocol, there may come a day where a modification or upgrade will need to take place within the DAO itself.

A contract change will allow the contributors to be able to implement changes as the community requests them. This will allow Spartan Protocol to remain fit for use no matter what changes may take place in the future of DeFi.

## Upgrade ROUTER Contract

> ℹ. `ROUTER` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

Another contract change proposal which has to be included to ensure that Spartan Protocol is as future proof as possible. The Router contract is likely to be upgraded many times throughout the years, whether it is to cut out unused features, make existing functions more efficent (save gas) or add new features.

## Upgrade UTILS Contract

> ℹ. `UTILS` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

When V2 launched, a new feeBurn deflationary feature was implemented on every transfer of the SPARTA token. This Utils contract was designed with the intention of making it possible to disable or change that feeBurn, which is exactly what happenned in late November 2021, sending us into the next phase of SPARTA token burns where ~37% of the total supply was burned permanently out of the supply to the 0x0dead address! It is unlikely this contract will need to be changed again in the future as it mostly houses 'helper' functions, but nice to know we always can!

## Upgrade RESERVE Contract

> ℹ. `RESERVE` Requires: 66.66% Consensus

The reserve contract is where the emissions are sent before being distributed to the pools or harvested. Just like the DAO contract address, this will most likely never need to be voted through to be changed, however is always best to be safe and make sure we are as future proof as possible.

---

## Bond-related Proposals (Deprecated)

With the token distribution phase of the project coming to a close, alot of Bond-related proposals are no longer relevant, but live on in the DAO's proposal-history page in the DApp. These Bond proposals inluded:

- New Bond Allocation: Release a 2M SPARTA allocation available for Bonding.
- List a Bond Asset: The Bond program was only enabled on limited assets as decided by the DAO
- Delist a Bond Asset: The DAO could also propose to remove an asset from being Bond-enabled

---

## Guides

- [Create New Proposal _Guide Coming Soon_](/dao?id=guides)
- [Manage Current Proposal _Guide Coming Soon_](/dao?id=guides)
