## Spartan Protocol

With Binance Smart Chain on the brink of launching on mainnet & the ever-increasing gas costs on Ethereum, a group of motivated Binance community members saw the opportunity to develop a platform that takes advantage of the opportunities provided by the faster & cheaper EVM chain. An extensive DeFi platform for the community with equal access & participation by all.

Core points about the ethos of the project:

- The project is built, maintained, extended & governed by the community.
- Fair launch - existing assets destroyed to acquire $SPARTA through a process referred to as _Proof-of-Burn._
- Binance Chain communities selected to participate - drive forward BSC adoption & education.
- The Protocol starts as decentralised as possible, with further decentralisation as the project matures.
- The Protocol strives towards full automation, with any ongoing maintenance enacted by the community DAO.

Spartan Protocol combined novel unique ideas with many varied & popular aspects of the DeFi landscape. Utilising the best parts of other great protocols such as:

- Thorchain ($RUNE)
- Bancor ($BNT)
- UniSwap ($UNI)
- Vader Protocol ($VADER)

Spartan Protocol is an AMM, but not the usual UniSwap copy-paste clones as seems to be standard in the industry. Our code has been built by the community from the ground up (not a fork) with inherently unique liquidity pool features such as:

- Liquidity sensitive fees (No fixed fee, trends to zero with more liquidity)
- Common settlement asset ($SPARTA, acting as a global price anchor)

##### Liquidity Pools

Spartans can provide liquidity to the pools to earn the revenue generated by the pool along with any extra dividends & other incentives. This is not to be confused with 'staking'. Assets provided as liquidity will fluctuate with the prices of the underlying assets in the pools & you may end up with less of one asset, but more of the other as your position is balanced resulting in something similar to an automated DCA-in, DCA-out trading strategy with revenue yield ontop.

##### Swapping Tokens

This unique liquidity model allows Spartan Protocol's pools to be very capital efficient, trending towards providing the cheapest routes for anyone swapping tokens on BSC. Being a protocol, the contracts are open to be plugged into aggregators and DApps all over the ecosystem, continuing to open up cheap & fast paths to swap between BSC assets.

##### Synthetic Assets

As the pools get deeper, they are able to bear special synthetic versions of the underlying assets (Synths). Synths allow you to earn yield on an otherwise stagnant assets in varied market conditions.

##### Staking

Staking is when you send your assets to a special contract & put it to work earning you extra yield. Liquidity providers can stake their LP tokens in the DaoVault to earn extra SPARTA yield on top of the LP token revenue. Synth holders can stake their Synth tokens in the SynthVault to earn SPARTA or compounding Synth yield too.

##### DAO

A decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) governs many of the variables & aspects of the protocol on-chain & in an automated fashion. As a liquidity provider you have open freedom to propose a change & vote to have it enacted in a censorship-resistant manner.

---

## The SPARTA token

The SPARTA token is essential to the protocol. It acts as the settlement asset for **every pool** meaning that all pools are paired with SPARTA. This in turn has the token acting as the essentail element in the protocol's decentralised oracle. The price of any listed token can be derived from it's pooled ratio with SPARTA **without the dependence on any external oracle.**

##### Token Distribution

One of the biggest statements of Spartan Protocol is its fair launch. The community who formed the idea of the protocol was sick of the scams, rug-pulls & general degen, scummy greedy behaviour going on in the DeFi world. So they created a plan to launch the token with **zero rent seeking aspects.** Flip the whole thing on its head, making most of the common scam behaviour not even possible with:

- No Airdrops
- No token sale
- No private sale
- No team allocation
- No treasury allocation
- **Only: 100% community allocation**

Every new SPARTA token can only be obtained through Proof-of-Burn, liquidity incentives or the Bond program.

##### Proof-of-Burn

Proof-of-Burn (PoB) was a novel & fairly unique initial token distribution phase designed by the community who built off some PoB concepts talked about or attempted by other projects in the past. As contrast to the standard in most projects, it attempted to ensure there was no-one profiting from each token being created. Instead, new Spartans would have to **permanently burn** their existing assets (like BNB for instance) to receive an equal value in SPARTA. Giving up assets of value (which are provably burned & not transferred to anyone else) helps build a base price for the SPARTA token & ensure there are no bad actors to dump the token or pull the rug. The PoB phase ended with over 130K units of BNB burned along with many other Binance Chain tokens.

##### Bond Program

The Bond program was the longer-term 2nd phase of the SPARTA token distribution involving bonding an asset with SPARTA & locking it in as liquidity for 6 - 12 months. This ensured Spartans had a long period to learn & align themselves with the protocol, whilst witnessing first-hand the revenue potential of providing liquidity to the pools. Many diamond-handed Spartans were forged by this program & continue to provide liquidity to this day, despite having part of their Bond position unlocked & free for removal.

##### Liquidity Incentives

A controlled and ever-decreasing amount of SPARTA is emitted daily to a reserve contract and allocated for liquidity incentives to reward liquidity providers in the most active pools. This SPARTA only enters circulation via incentives which benefit the good peers in the ecosystem. Spartans providing liquidity are good Spartans!